Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course in this lecture.
We're going to talk about another one of the best practices for contracting and outsourcing and it's
called dividing by specialisations.
Now what have you guys who are not totally familiar with web work or mobile work or just in general
digital work design work.
Probably not familiar with every single piece that goes into your project.
So let's say that you're building a web project your project has separate sections to it.
So it's not just that you have one person make you a Web site.
You need someone to do the design and you need someone to do the development.
Now even within the development side there's different sections and within the design side there are
different sections.
Now when I say separate out the specialisations what I mean by that is first you need to recognize that
there are separate sections in your project timeline or in your project scope and then you just divide
by that you look for one person for each section as opposed to one person who does the entire thing.
Now what's the benefit to doing this.
So let's say in one scenario you have someone who says I'm going to make your web application including
everything I'm going to help you with the strategy.
I mean help you with the design I'm going to develop it I'm going to market it.
And then the Olt alternate option is that you get four different people.
One person helps you with consulting the idea one person designs that one person develops it and then
one person helps you with the launch and the marketing.
The difference is is that when you have one person do all of those things they're typically on average
as a whole much more expensive.
Why.
Because it's a much rarer thing to find someone who can do all of those things.
And so their time is much much much more valuable.
Also when you have one person do all of those things that can't possibly be an expert.
Every single one of them.
Typically they're going to be good at one or two things but they can't possibly be a master.
Every single section.
Now the other scenario where you have four different people doing every single session you can pick
people who are good at that one thing and because they're specialists.
That means that that is their craft.
They're not good at other things but they're also not attempting to work on other sections of your application.
Now a specialist you usually end up saving quite a bit of money because it's a it's a question of scale.
Almost one person works on the same thing over and over and over again.
They get really good at that one thing they're faster at it and they can end up charging you less.
And now this can apply in many different scenarios.
Here's a great example.
If you're building a web site or a web application and you get someone to design it and then you get
someone who says I'm going to take that design and I'm going to develop it.
Well you can actually add another step in that process.
When you have a design typically it'll come to you in like a photoshop file or an Illustrator file or
whatever A-P and GPDA.
And then what ends up happening is the developer has to convert that into something that the browser
can actually understand.
They take the images out by a technique called slicing and they do all of the layouts for the actual
application so that it displays correctly on the browser.
Then they do the heavy lifting of actually making the buttons work the functionality work the pages
load correctly.
So what you can do is you can actually find a specialist to do that in-between job which is taking design
and turning it into each team Mallan CSSA which is the preliminary work the developer would have been
doing.
Now typically a developer is good at either back end work or they're really good at taking designs and
making them into HVM else.
SS So in the case that you have someone doing both just generic development typically that means that
they're probably not as good at both sides and they're probably charging you more because they actually
it takes them a lot more time to do it.
Now if I specialized in just taking a design and turning it into something a browser could read of just
images an HMO I'd probably be pretty good at that.
I'd also probably do it in half the time as someone who does not spend a lot of time doing that.
And this is a great real life example.
So if you had to design what you can do is you can go to a studio that specializes in taking Web taking
design and turning them into an age TMLC SS and they cost a fraction of what someone else would charge
your developer probably would charge you $40 an hour and probably tell you take them 20 hours that's
eight hundred bucks but you can go to a company like pixel crayons site slinger.
There's a lot of other ones out there or even just a studio you found on e L'anse that specializes in
this and they're going to charge you probably $100 $150 because they're very good at it.
So think about specializing.
The only downside to specializing is that it requires more management on your side.
It requires a little more coordination.
You need to make sure that the people are helping you in each segment of your application or your project
are in sync with the other.
Now pay attention to the Project Management section of this course that can help you communicate between
them much more easily.
But in general Siskin are required that your a but more on the ball.
You make sure everybody's on the same page everyone understands the same look and feel.
It's really helpful to brief everyone on the same information even if it's not necessarily related to
what they're doing just so they can know what to expect and know what their final product should be.
So if they can handle it off to the next person.
So this is a best practice.
I think it's great if you're an advanced outsource or or contractor if you've worked with web projects
before.
If you're brand new to it you might be tempted just to use one person to do the entire thing which is
perfectly fine.
Obviously pay attention to their portfolio but expect to pay a little bit more money and expect it's
going to take a little bit more time.
So if you're up for it and you think you can do it try to find someone who can do individual segments
of your project.
You save money you save a lot of time and usually the product ends up coming out better.
If you guys have any questions post in the group discussion love to discuss it.
Any experiences you've had.
Just let me know otherwise we'll see in the next lecture.